README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>



<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">ModernFit Gym</h3>

  <p align="center">
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

Our client is ModernFit Gym from Sheffield. Is looking to **_move from a paper-based records system to a modern digital alternative_**.
They pride themselves on fitness and health with several seasoned specialists offering nutritional guidance. The software should allow members and staff alike to sign up to the gym and will provide them with pins to enter gym locations. It will also allow for the gym’s specialists to have digital records of members, who can submit logs of meals and workouts, allowing specialists to provide programs and diets through the software to gym members. The software should follow WCAG 2 guidelines and allow notifications of any planned maintenance. This software is also planned to be used in more than one geographical location.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Seamless Registration for members and overview of available services.
- [ ] Assign Members Unique Pins.
- [ ] Allow Trainers to monitor member progress.
- [ ] Allow Member to acces detailed nutritional information for foods.
- [ ] Allow members to securely log their daily meals and workouts.
- [ ] Notification System for maintenance and downtime

See the [open issues](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


### Built With

* [![Next][Next.js]][Next-url]
* [![React][React.js]][React-url]
* [![Mongo][MongoDB]][MongoDB-url]
* [![Tailwind][Tailwind.CSS]][Tailwind.CSS-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

This is an example of how to list things you need to use the software and how to install them.
* npm
  ```sh
  npm install npm@latest -g
  ```

### Installation

_Below is an example of how you can instruct your audience on installing and setting up your app. This template doesn't rely on any external dependencies or services._

1. Get a free API Key at [https://example.com](https://example.com)
2. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11
   ```
3. Install NPM packages
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>







<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/graphs/contributors
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues
[Next.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white
[Next-url]: https://nextjs.org/
[React.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB
[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/
[MongoDB]: https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white
[MongoDB-url]: https://www.mongodb.com/
[Tailwind.CSS]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white
[Tailwind.CSS-url]: https://tailwindcss.com/

Commit message:

Start up bash script and readme update

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>



<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">ModernFit Gym</h3>

  <p align="center">
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

Our client is ModernFit Gym from Sheffield. Is looking to **_move from a paper-based records system to a modern digital alternative_**.
They pride themselves on fitness and health with several seasoned specialists offering nutritional guidance. The software should allow members and staff alike to sign up to the gym and will provide them with pins to enter gym locations. It will also allow for the gym’s specialists to have digital records of members, who can submit logs of meals and workouts, allowing specialists to provide programs and diets through the software to gym members. The software should follow WCAG 2 guidelines and allow notifications of any planned maintenance. This software is also planned to be used in more than one geographical location.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Seamless Registration for members and overview of available services.
- [ ] Assign Members Unique Pins.
- [ ] Allow Trainers to monitor member progress.
- [ ] Allow Member to acces detailed nutritional information for foods.
- [ ] Allow members to securely log their daily meals and workouts.
- [ ] Notification System for maintenance and downtime

See the [open issues](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


### Built With

* [![Next][Next.js]][Next-url]
* [![React][React.js]][React-url]
* [![Mongo][MongoDB]][MongoDB-url]
* [![Tailwind][Tailwind.CSS]][Tailwind.CSS-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

This is an example of how to list things you need to use the software and how to install them.
* npm
  ```sh
  npm install npm@latest -g
  ```

### Installation

_Below is an example of how you can instruct your audience on installing and setting up your app. This template doesn't rely on any external dependencies or services._

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11
   ```
2. Install NPM packages
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
3. Create MongoDB database at https://www.mongodb.com for free and follow there instructions for connection.
  * In summary:
  * Create .env file in the backend folder
  * Add MONGO_URI=< uri for your MONGODB database >
4. Run these commands to start both server and frontend application. (NOTE this will remove logging in console can access logs with "pm2 logs" command)
  ```sh
  chmod u+x start-server-and-web-page
  ./start-sever-and-web-page.sh
  ```
  OR run by using cd to enter both backend and frontend in seperate terminals then run
  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```
  in both directories
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>







<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/graphs/contributors
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/JokerZ75/ModernFit-Gym-Group11/issues
[Next.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/next.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white
[Next-url]: https://nextjs.org/
[React.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB
[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/
[MongoDB]: https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white
[MongoDB-url]: https://www.mongodb.com/
[Tailwind.CSS]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white
[Tailwind.CSS-url]: https://tailwindcss.com/
